Throughout the course of this project, the main aim was to capture the understanding of what a student at Solent University required. The outcome was the culmination of designs that attempted to energise and impact the act of booking rooms, talking to lecturers, booking counselling, and allowing the students to keep track of all of this time and information in one setting.
The project aim tended to deviate between the design and development route. Whilst adhering to the design route via the implementation of high fidelity designs that still aimed to preview an understanding of a minimum viable product. However, due to the increasing understanding that the elements and features produced within the high fidelity prototype would become harder to create within React.js. As a result, the messaging system was scraped and the main focus within the project was to produce a working booking system that looked appealing using the UI design created prior, and still aim to produce a well-developed product.
The methodology used throughout this project as mentioned did include the minimum viable product approach, however during design phases and development phases, the use of agile was achieved. By aiming to understand and evaluate the current portals and applications used within Solent University, there was a need to culminate these apparent ‘gaps in the market’ by allowing students to keep track of their time and bookings in one place. After reviewing the designs created within the beginning stages of the project, a react application was created to culminate the thoughts and ideas of the project. After trail and error of different possibilities for the product, a product was formed.
Initially, the login page was implemented, however due to constraints the login ideally would need to be a lot more secure within a production app, however for the sake of displaying the login, to emulate the experience, this has been achieved. From there, the bookings calendar as mentioned prior, has been implemented to have entries appear on start up after login has been achieved. This was done to demonstrate how a student might have their content already visible from the get-go within the application. From there, the make booking functionality  was achieved, when the user books an appointment with either three of the options, it will add into the bookings context within the app, this essentially is like a global state that any component within the react app can access if it is wrapped within a <BookingsContext.Provider> which is located within App.js. After the addition of another booking the user is navigated to the calendar page and the booking made is placed within the calendar and colour coded according the booking and placed within the date selected. 
Ideally, the product would have an implementation of redux to allow for state management and then potentially store and fetch data from a database, this would allow the data to persist throughout and across from each session logging in and using the application, this would have been achieved if taking the development route had been furthered. The folder structure used throughout this project has been split into two major folders, the common folder that houses all common components which are reused throughout and across multiple pages within the application. In addition to this, the pages folder which essentially is a component for each page, this draws in the common components to build up the high fidelity designs that were produced for the project. 
The calendar used for the project is an npm package called react big calendar, this was used after researching into various methods of producing a calendar within the application, in addition to this package, custom styling has been applied to the calendar within MyBookingsPage, the calendar component accepts the eventPropGetter prop which can then be passed through a function which returns the some of the custom styling, an example of this would be the changing of the colours dependant on the booking type.
To access the booking context and get the bookings data from the components it was required to use a react hook called useContext, in addition to this to update the context that has been added, the addBooking function within the App.js files is passed down to the MakeBookingPage and used when a booking is successfully created.
In addition, sass has been used throughout to style, because it provides a modular approach to styling whilst also allowing the use of variables. Finally, the for routing, react router has been used and is handed within App.js.
